Updated style guide (#5037)
SkylineCommunications/dataminer-docs: dataminer/Functions/Dashboards_and_Low_Code_Apps/Low_Code_Apps/Style_guide.md

> [!NOTE]
> If you come across something that has not been added to this style guide yet, [create a pull request](xref:CTB_Quick_Edit) to update this documentation.

> [!TIP]
> Are you new to designing low-code apps and dashboards? This will help you get started:
>
> - [Kata #19: Transform low-code apps into visual delights](https://community.dataminer.services/courses/kata-19/) on DataMiner Dojo ![Video](~/dataminer/images/video_Duo.png)
> - Tutorial: [Creating a visually appealing and user-friendly low-code app](xref:Tutorial_App_Design)

## Themes

- When you choose the main color for a low-code app, ensure that there is enough contrast between the header, sidebar, and buttons.

- When you create a new app or dashboard, always start from a default theme. From DataMiner 10.4.0 [CU13]/10.5.0 [CU1]/10.5.4 onwards<!--RN 42179-->, the following default themes are available:

  - Skyline Light - White

  - Skyline Dark

- Use the same theme consistently across all pages and panels.

- [Customize component themes](xref:Customize_Component_Layout) only to make minor adjustments, such as removing padding inside a maps component.

> - Always use the *Default* component style, except for the following components, where you should use the *Transparent* style:

Reviewer: Could you illustrate why we recommend this? If people understand the reason for this rule, they're more likely to follow it.

  - For a call to action, use the color as a background and pair it with the default light or dark text color, depending on contrast.

- Only use the default font.

- Limit templates to a maximum of 3 visible actions. If more actions are needed, add them behind a context menu.

  > [!TIP]
  > For an example, refer to [Styling a table component - Step 7: Add a context menu](xref:Tutorial_Apps_Style_A_Table#step-7-add-a-context-menu)

- Use tooltips or `title` attributes in HTML layers to clarify layered content.

- If your visualization does not have fixed dimensions, make sure your template is fully responsive. Use techniques such as CSS Flexbox, container queries, the `text-overflow` property, etc.

> [!TIP]
> Creating a template from scratch? You can find inspiration on [Dribbble](https://dribbble.com/search/shots/popular/product-design?q=cards), sketch and structure parts of your template in [Figma](https://figma.com), and test your HTML/CSS layers in [Codepen](http://codepen.io/).

## Layout

- Make sure components on a page/panel are aligned vertically and horizontally.

> - Always use a 50-column grid for your page layout.

Author: I mean the "number of columns" page setting. By default it isn't 50, but we will update that later.
<img width="429" height="265" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/33feb44a-81f4-492c-bb85-63dcaf7fa4c2" />

> - Always use a 50-column grid for your page layout.

Reviewer: In that case, I'd change this entry as follows and add a screenshot similar to the one you posted below it (but with the correct value):
```suggestion
- In the page settings, always set the *Number of columns* setting to 50.
```
What is the reason why we recommend this? Adding that info will make users more inclined to stick to this rule.

- Leave one column of spacing on the left and right sides of every page.

- Apply consistent spacing between components.

- Avoid clutter. Tailor the complexity of the interface to your target audience (e.g. technical users vs. management).

- Use the *fit to view* option when the content fits the screen.

- Adjust component sizes to the content they display (e.g. avoid oversized ring and state components or undersized tables and timelines filled with data).

- Before you publish a low-code app, test your layout on different screen resolutions to ensure that it displays correctly on all target devices.

## Navigation

> - Use the sidebar as the main navigation to the different pages defined in the app. When there are too many pages in your sidebar, or if you want to show the same data in another way, use the header bar as tabs to open hidden pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the sidebar as the main navigation to the different pages defined in the app. When there are too many pages in your sidebar, or if you want to show the same data in another way, use buttons in the header bar as tabs to open hidden pages.
```

  > [!NOTE]

>   > When up to two components fill an entire page with no margins, you can place action buttons on the left side of the header bar. Just do not use them as tabs.

Reviewer: This note isn't clear to me. Could you clarify? Possibly this is a good spot for a screenshot?

Reviewer: I think this is something we'll need to clarify in this iteration. Why the action buttons? This isn't clear right now.

Author: When header bar actions are used as tabs, we don’t want users to mix them with other actions. If they’re not used as tabs, and the page is fully filled with two components, the header bar can be used for actions.

Reviewer: Could we replace this like this then?
```suggestion
  > Make sure you do not use both regular action buttons in the header and buttons that are meant to be used as tabs, as this will lead to confusion. Regular action buttons should only be added when no tabs are needed.
```

> - If you are using the header bar as tabs, make sure you **show a title on each page** or **use a circle icon that is filled** on the selected page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you are using buttons in the header bar as tabs, make sure you **show a title on each page** or **use a circle icon that is filled** on the selected page.
```

> - If you are using the header bar as tabs, make sure you **show a title on each page** or **use a circle icon that is filled** on the selected page.

Reviewer: Could you add a screenshot to illustrate what you mean with the circle icon?

- Place the "About" page **at the bottom** of the sidebar and **use the info circle icon**.

- If your app has more than 10 pages (including sidebar and header tabs), **add an overview page**. It should highlight key data and provide quick links.

## Panels

- Show **additional information in a side panel on the right** for each item on a page.

- If your panel updates based on a selection, **add a title** with the selected item's name.

- Show **forms in a pop-up** panel.

> - Always choose the **same width** in your actions if you are using the same panel more than once.

Reviewer: Could you clarify or illustrate this rule?

- Every panel should have a **close button in the top-right corner**. An icon is enough; the button does not need a label.

> - If you have too much information in one panel, you can split it into multiple panels and **use the header bar as tabs**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you have too much information in one panel, you can split it into multiple panels and **use buttons in the header bar as tabs**.
```

- **Use the “As overlay” option** when opening a panel.

> - Do not use panels as pages.

Reviewer: Could you clarify this? How could panels be used as pages? Maybe we should rephrase this to a positive rule: what do you use panels for vs. what do you use pages for?

Reviewer: So do you mean that a panel's width should never be set to 100%, because it should be clear that it is a panel instead of a page?

## Actions

- Only include **one access point** for a certain action per page/panel.

- **Confirm** important data change actions with a notification.

## Components

> - Make sure you **choose the right visualization** for your data.

Reviewer: This is very vague, so we should probably clarify this with examples.

Author: If your data is event-based, show it in a timeline. If your data is location-based, show it on a map.

> - Make sure you add **[a custom empty component message](xref:Tutorial_Dashboards_Displaying_a_custom_empty_component_message)** that guides your user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the data displayed by a component depend on a query, make sure you add **[a custom empty component message](xref:Tutorial_Dashboards_Displaying_a_custom_empty_component_message)** that helps the user in case the query returns no results.
```

> ### Title (Web component)

Reviewer: What do you mean with "web component"? Instead of adding this as part of this header, it might be better to explain this below.

> - Titles are optional on pages, depending on whether users will need **more context information** about what they are looking at.

Reviewer: Could you add one or more examples here?

- Start from this title:

  ```html
  <div style="height: 100%; display: flex; flex-direction: column; justify-content: center; font-family: Segoe UI,Segoe UI Web Regular,Segoe UI Symbol,Helvetica Neue,BBAlpha Sans,S60 Sans,Arial,sans-serif;">
    <H1 style="color: #151A22; margin: 0; font-weight: 400; font-size: 24px">People</H1>
    <p style="color: #44484E; margin: 0; font-weight: 400; font-size: 16px">
    An overview of all managed people.
    </p>
  </div>
  ```

- **Do not repeat the low-code app name** as a title on a page.

- Do not make the titles **too big**.

- Use **the same title styles** across your low-code app.

- Place titles in the exact **same place on every page**.

- **Do not add icons** in your title.

### Buttons

- Label your buttons with **enough context** so users understand exactly what each action will do.

- **Add an icon** whenever possible.

### Images

> - Do not add customer logos.

Reviewer: Could you clarify this, keeping in mind that external users may also be using this guide?

Author: We saw that many dashboards and apps display logos of customers or DataMiner. Internally, it was decided to stop doing this. To make this applicable to both internal and external users, we could maybe remove the word "customer" from that sentence?

- Do not add unnecessary images.

> - **Only use dynamic images** with a web component on a page or HTML tool in templates.

Reviewer: Could you add an example to clarify this?

Author: By dynamic images I mean images that change based on your data. For example, each movie has its own image. We don’t want static images that always stay the same and add nothing beyond basic context.
<img width="674" height="682" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4c504df9-3a81-4625-a5bb-3a6e8bc7c0e1" />

Reviewer: So could I change this like this?

```suggestion
- Avoid adding static images that have no added value, but instead add **dynamic images** with a web component on a page or HTML tool in templates, so that the images change based on the displayed data.
```

Reviewer: Next attempt:
```suggestion
- Only add images if they are **dynamic**, so that they change based on the displayed data. You can do with a web component on a page or HTML tool in templates.
```

### Forms (DOM and IAS components)

- Make sure forms are always shown **in a pop-up panel**.

- Place any **form actions**, such as "Save" or "Delete", **at the bottom of the form**.

- **Enable the "Fit to view"** option on a pop-up panel with a form.

- Make sure labels are shown above the inputs in DOM forms by **setting the pop-up width to 35%**.

- If the DOM instance shown in the form has states, **show a stepper component at the top** showing the current state of the instance.

### Tables

- **Limit the number of columns** so all columns shown fit the screen size for which the app is intended. Show any additional information in a panel.

- **Add a component title** to your table mentioning which kind of data it is.

- Do not show IDs.

- **Rename your column titles** to straightforward, clear but concise names.

> - If you need a selected state, make sure it is **clear on the full row**.

Reviewer: Could you add an example to clarify this?

Reviewer: So how should users configure this instead?

Author: Template**S**, because you configure a template for each column. Suggestion: If you override the default row selection indication, make sure that the overrides you configure in the templates is visible on the **entire row**.
